[Music]
now a camera has an elementary sensor
which means it needs light to capture an
image so if you want to take pictures in
the dark
you need a flash for this sensor there
is another type of sensor that can
capture invisible light
but they need a bigger battery which
can't be installed in basic smartphones
the okitel wp7 is the first smartphone
with a built-in
infrared night vision camera the camera
only has 8 megapixels
so the photos won't be that good but
they can't be taken in the dark
the phone's battery is also quite big so
it won't be comfortable to use every day
the first phone camera was in the
kyocera visual phone
vp-210 it was made in 1999 in japan
and could take video and photos the
camera had
only 0.11 megapixels and was able to
process
just two video frames in a second but it
was
the first ever video filmed on a phone
even cheap devices nowadays are
much more powerful than the most
powerful computers of the past
so much so that your phone has half a
million times more memory
than a whole bunch of computers that
sent the first man to the moon
our phones are becoming much more
similar to pcs than to actual telephones
and just like pcs our phones will become
upgradable
and modular the first step was made by
google back in 2016.
they wanted to make a phone of different
blocks cameras screens
batteries and named it project ara
at the mobile world congress in 2019 we
learned that flip phones will be popular
again
not the old-fashioned flip phones with a
small screen and keyboard though the
flip phone 2.0
is going to be both a smartphone and a
tablet transformable
into each other by folding a flexible
screen
lg also presented a smartphone with a
flexible screen
the lg g flex and this is not its main
feature
this phone can regenerate its cover like
human skin
polycarbonate fibers tightens scratches
and breaks
it can't completely recover but it can
fix small
damaged areas the changhong h2
is a phone that knows what you eat and
what medicine you use
it has a special sensor that can scan
your food
and let you know it's chemical
composition it's like a small laboratory
that can make your life easier
and safer sometimes a phone's game
control
is quite poor so you can enjoy the game
like you want
sony made the xperia play to solve this
problem
you just slide your screen and now
you're holding a small
game console which will help you beat
all your rivals in any game
small screens can be uncomfortable for
gamers too
but the samsung galaxy beam has a small
projector in its body
it can show films photos games or
documents to your friends and colleagues
all you need is your phone and a flat
wall
the first mobile phone was the motorola
dynatac 8000x
it was made 37 years ago so it was not
technologically advanced
by today's standards due to its size
form and weight
this phone was called the brick phone
its battery was not great either
only 35 minutes for talking and then 10
hours of charging
all for four thousand dollars nowadays
the sizes of phones are decreasing
but their capabilities are increasing
because modern people have more needs
for example ninety percent of mobile
phones in japan
are waterproof because they have no
spare time and use the phone literally
everywhere for work and relaxation
some people suppose that smartphones are
harmful to us
there is even an actual sport in finland
they throw their phones and compete in
different categories
and this idea isn't so new they started
it 20 years ago
and organized the world and national
championships now
smartphones allow us to connect with
anyone in this world
so they can't be called useless there
are six billion
sms messages sent in the usa alone
per day that's about 2.27
trillion each year the reasons why some
phones grow
larger is that our phones are becoming
more sophisticated
today smartphones are capable of filming
professional movies
processing lots of data and downloading
tons of information
these features affect the size of a
smartphone because it requires powerful
processors
and more energy there are five times
more smartphones than pcs nowadays
because it's easier to chat with your
friend on a phone than getting to a pc
to write an email and wait for a
response and with a phone
you have your calendar documents and
everything you need
in your pocket over 275 million
smartphones have been sold during the
first quarter of twenty twenty
that's more than the number of people in
japan and russia combined
and almost as much as people in the us
smartphones are some of the most popular
goods on the market right now
around a hundred thousand smartphones
are dropped in the toilet in britain
every year
and people admit doing that
doesn't say here what happens exactly
after that do they
you know fish them out then what
anyway worldwide the number is even
greater because we use phones
everywhere we can and we often drop them
or leave them behind in almost every
place
so yeah take a break huh people look at
their phone quite often
just to check the time or read
notifications but
how often the average user unlocks their
phone about 110 times a day
but some do it even 900 times a day
that's as much as we blink our eyes
every hour
almost 47 percent of smartphone users in
the us
say they can't live without their phones
this is not surprising
because our phones contain all the
information about us and our past time
our phones are like a personal assistant
who is always there when needed
our phones don't consume a lot of energy
for example
your iphone needs less than one dollar
every year to stay charged
that's like needing only one cup of
coffee once a year to stay fresh
jealous about 25 percent of the world's
population
use only their phones to access the
internet and those numbers are growing
as fast as our phones are becoming as
powerful as computers
in the year 2025 it'll be up to 76
percent
the iphone is not the most purchased
phone that would be the nokia 1100
which is the best selling phone in our
history 250 million
phones have been sold by nokia and
nobody can match those numbers of sales
especially since these phones are no
longer available to purchase
the best-selling iphone model is the 6
and 6 plus
220 million of them now of course if you
add up all the models of it over the
years
apple has sold 2.2 billion iphones
since they began to produce them this is
a quarter of the world's current
population
and it seems our population will grow
slower than the purchase rate of iphones
in five to six years it may be more than
8 billion
iphones the world's most expensive
iphone ever sold
was worth 15 million dollars it was made
from 135 grams of 24 karat gold
and the body contained 600 white
diamonds
that's the value of about 15 private
islands in the pacific ocean
except you can hold it in just one hand
the first mobile phone with gps was the
benef
and it was made as a safety phone it was
released in 1999 by benaphone
and could only be used in europe but
this safety phone laid the foundation
for gps and smartphones
all around the world there are two and a
half times more
active smartphones in hong kong than
there are smartphone owners
hong kong's population is 7.5 million
people
yet they own 17.4 million smartphones
so it's okay to have more than two
smartphones if you live there
in the whole world there are 6.8 billion
people
and 5.16 billion of them own at least
one smartphone
it's hard to find a person who doesn't
use a smartphone at all
and it will be almost impossible to do
so in a few years from now